Add a better Overall Introduction (#402)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

# Introduction {#sec-intro}

> RATS Architecture {{Section 4 of -rats-arch}}., specifies two important roles, Endorsers and Reference Value Providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RATS Architecture {{Section 4 of -rats-arch}} specifies several roles, including Endorsers and Reference Value Providers.
```

> These roles are typically fulfilled by relevant supply chain actors, such as manufacturers, distributors, or device owners.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These roles are typically fulfilled by supply chain actors, such as manufacturers, distributors, or device owners.
```

> These roles are typically fulfilled by relevant supply chain actors, such as manufacturers, distributors, or device owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These two roles are typically fulfilled by relevant supply chain actors, such as manufacturers, distributors, or device owners.
```

> They provide the required trusted Endorsements (e.g., test results or certification data) and Reference Values (e.g., the version or digest of a firmware component) about the Attester. This information is fundamental for correct operation of a Verifier (i.e. appraising Evidence received from the Attester).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Endorsers and Reference Value Providers supply Endorsements (e.g., test results or certification data) and Reference Values (e.g., expected version or digest ) relating to an Attester.
This information is used by a Verifier to appraise Evidence received from an Attester which describes Attester operational state.
```

> They provide the required trusted Endorsements (e.g., test results or certification data) and Reference Values (e.g., the version or digest of a firmware component) about the Attester. This information is fundamental for correct operation of a Verifier (i.e. appraising Evidence received from the Attester).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
They provide the required trusted Endorsements (e.g., test results or certification data) and Reference Values (e.g., the digest of a firmware component) about the Attester. This information is fundamental for correct operation of a Verifier (i.e. appraising Evidence received from the Attester).
```

In a complex supply chain, multiple actors will likely produce these values over several points in time.

> As such, one supply chain actor will only provide the subset of characteristics that they know about the Attester. A proper subset is typical because a certain supply chain actor will be the responsible authority for only a system component/module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As such, one supply chain actor might only supply a portion of the Reference Values or Endorsements that otherwise fully characterizes an Attester.
Ideally, only the supply chain actor who is the most knowledgable entity regarding a particular component will supply Reference Values or Endorsements for that component.
```

that is measured amongst a long chain of measurements.

Attesters vary across vendors and even across products from a single vendor.
Not only Attesters can evolve and therefore new measurement types need to be expressed, but an Endorser may also want to provide new security relevant attributes about an Attester at a future point in time.

> In order to promote inter-operability, consistency and accuracy in the representation of Endorsements and Reference Values, and to aid the supply chain eco-system, this document specifies a standards based data model known as Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM). CoRIM is a CBOR {{-cbor}} based data structure that addresses the above challenges by using an extensible format common to all supply chain actors and Verifiers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to promote inter-operability, consistency and accuracy in the representation of Endorsements and Reference Values this document specifies a data model for Endorsements and Reference Values known as Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM).
The CoRIM data model is expressed in CDDL which can be used to realize a CBOR {{-cbor}} encoding suitable for cryptographic operations (e.g., hashing, signing, encryption) and transmission over computer networks.
```

Reviewer 2: I removed "CoRIM achieves these goals by using an extensible format common to all supply chain actors and Verifiers." because I don't know what format it is referring to and I don't know what it means for it to be common to all supply chain actors.

Author: We want to highlight that the data format we are proposing here is a IETF Standards based model to be adopted by all supply chain actors!

Reviewer 2: Couldn't something to that effect be said by any RFC? Do we need to put it in words?

> CoRIM enables Verifiers to reconcile a complex distributed supply chain into a single homogeneous view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CoRIM describes appraisal steps and behaviors that help Verifiers to reconcile a variety of possible inputs from multiple supply chain actors that results in a homogeneious representation of Attester state.
```

Author: I think, the lines you deleted is valid as to `WHY` such a document (i.e. CoRIM Document) is necessary ? It answers `WHY` part,

What you stated is an Additional Note:

`Additionally, this document describes multiple steps  of a Verifier Appraisal and provides an example of a possible use of CoRIM messages from multiple supply chain actors  to represent a homogeneous representation of Attester state.`
